this may not be the augmented reality
headset that everyone's talking about
right now but hidden away at the Samsung
display Booth is a Showcase from the
recently acquired imagine that
absolutely blew my mind Apple I don't
ask you for much but can you please use
this Tech in your upcoming AR VR
headsets like check this out inside this
black box is a micro OLED display that's
so bright they warned me not to look at
it for more than a second or two at a
time they claim that it reaches a bright
of 10,000 nits and I got to tell you
guys I believe them like it's physically
painful to look at which raises a big
question why would anybody want a
display that's so bright it's painful to
look at a few reasons actually in a
head-mounted display application which
is what these are for you lose a ton of
the brightness to the lens that
stretches the display to fill your field
of view also certain applications like
3D can cause a lot of Light Lost and a
big one is low persistence okay when
you're moving your head around when
there's a fast moving object going by
you can achieve really great motion
Clarity by strobing the Light which
means anytime it's not shining you're
losing some of that potential brightness
at pixel densities of up to 2600 pixels
per inch these things are like having a
movie theater that you can stick your
eye into but that wasn't enough for
Imagine that's where these guys come in
instead of using a traditional printed
on motherg glass approach to OLED
manufacturing like we see in laptop or
tablets they are using a silicon
deposition method of manufacturing the
displays so what they're doing is
they're taking a super fine mask like
this and they're building up these
displays sub pixel by sub pixel just
like you would a microprocessor and this
has a couple of key advantages first is
the pixel density
3500 pixels per inch that is absolutely
wild they've got a demo chip here that
they've got a 7x magnification thing
sitting on and you can't even begin to
see anything resembling an individual
pixel we're talking one micron between
each one no screen door effect and the
other big one is power consumption
they're claiming that these will be able
to run at something like I think it's a
f 1 1 the power consumption of the more
traditional manufacturing method now I
think you can see already that this is
far from mass production this is a mere
200 mm wafer when the big kids are using
300 mm wafer
but my belief is that as they scale this
up given what we know about silicon
manufacturing we could expect not only
the advantages we just discussed but
also the economies of scale so uh hey
Apple if you're watching would love to
see this in a Future Vision Pro headset
Vision Pro 2 perhaps oh also love to see
what we're going to see in future
laptops after this message from our
sponsor thanks to be quiet for
sponsoring our 2024 CES coverage if
you're shopping for your next PC build
or just new components in general make
sure to check out be quiet their premium
products include power supplies case
fans PC cases for said case fans
all-in-one water coolers and high
performance air coolers with fruits in
Germany they've been in the industry for
more than 20 years and specialize in
making high quality parts that are hard
to hear this year at CES they're
showcasing new white PC cases white fans
and even white hard drive cages step
into the world of quiet cooling with B
quiet at the link down below we know
that MacBooks have great battery life
thanks to the M series chips that Apple
has been cranking out but their battery
life could be even better because right
now the biggest draw is going to be
their displays but Samsung's been
cooking up some pretty cool color
techniques that are going to like trick
your brain into perceiving more color
with a lower power budget now here we
have an LCD display and an OLED display
something we've had to do for a long
time with LCD displays is crank up the
brightness to make something appear more
green but with new OLED technology from
Samsung display they can provide higher
color saturation so that green is
actually more green like have you ever
looked at like a flower before it's not
brighter but they can have specific very
deep blue or red Hues that you just
can't see on a display when we measure
our LCD display we see that it's pulling
around the 300nits region but we go to
our Ola
display and we're getting around 270
nits so about a 10% reduction in overall
luminance but to the human eye it
appears to be a little bit brighter now
there's a couple of caveat we can see
that the color temperatures aren't
perfectly lined up these are two
different display Technologies they're
not going to be a one toone comparison
but in theory if you can get a 10% power
savings just from going to OLED that's
going to have help your battery life a
huge amount but what else is really cool
is over here is their color technology
this is the color trickery that I was
talking about here we have what they're
calling intelligent color technology so
here we have two displays but one of
them is using about 10% less power to
save even more energy Samsung display is
employing a couple of cool techniques on
this side they're using Advanced Edge
luminance profile plus intelligent color
technology what the heck does that mean
basically what they're doing is that
they're dimming the very edges of the
display to reduce the amount of overall
power that your back light's using and
it's really really subtle you can see it
when we change it side by side here
we're going to 5% a 10% reduction 15 20
if you take a close look you can see
right around the edges that that's
actually changing but it's really not
affecting the main content of the image
where you're going to be putting the
stuff you're looking at and even right
now I don't really mind the vignetting
especially when you're supposedly
getting 34% power saving whatever that
means Samsung display so what's holding
apple back from switching to OLED
laptops well one thing is that Apple
sells a ton of laptops and you can't get
that many displays from the current
motherg glass you see every single
display is cut from a big huge sheet of
glass this is how big their motherg
glass is today and in 2025 this is how
big it's going to be which means they're
going to be able to make a ton more
displays but hey Samsung display got to
steal from Apple too look Dynamic
Island moving over to things Apple
should borrow from Samsung display a big
Focus for them this year was the
durability of their foldable screens and
while I have had some personal bad
experiences with them my zold 3 has the
micro cracks down the middle it's clear
that they've been hard hard at work on
new form factors that take better
advantage of some of their new
advancements like this one that is
foldable and slidable and this laptop
that can just you know casually go from
like basically per storable to having a
pretty decent Siz display okay
realistically Apple's not going to make
a MacBook with screens on the top and
bottom like this but this is something
we'd be very likely to see they're
showing off an OLED display with a peak
brightness of
3,000 knits this year
that is what those is all OLED where's a
QD
OLED now we've been talking a lot about
oleds but what about them
cuties you already used that int line
pretty much damn it a lot of the Cutie
OLED action has been in the monitor
space and we're going to be showing you
guys a lot of cool videos about that
very soon but in the TV space brightness
is the game and the next generation of
Cu OLED panels is going to be 50%
brighter going from 2,000 nits to
3,000 nits Peak brightness it's it's
really hard to show on camera but
honestly it can get almost too bright at
times for this footage I feel like we're
almost losing details with just how
bright it is compared to this like look
at the green on here and it's it's
mindboggling now we're not going to be
seeing an increase in color gamut on
these new OLED panels brightness is the
main focus but qti OLED already covers
90% of the rec 2020 color space which is
crazy but it allows them to get panone
certification which is great for
creators a big big crowd for Apple
making sure that they know that their
renders that are on their screen are
going to look like the product they'll
actually receive in real life there is a
lot of amazing features that we really
really want to see especially in Apple
devices make sure to subscribe to Short
Circuit so if Apple actually ends up
using these displays you'll be the first
to know and it'll be so cool it'll be
great